- [Arun] In order for Istio to be able to do its work,
we need to create certain Istio resources.
Let's first understand what Istio resources we need
in our case, and then we will create them next.
DestinationRule is a resource that allows
to specify one or more named sets
that represent individual versions of a service.
Each version is uniquely identified
using the labels attached to the pod.
It also defines policies that apply
to traffic intended for a service
after routing has occurred.
These rules specify configuration
for load balancing, connection pool size
from the sidecar, and outlier reduction settings
to detect and evict unhealthy hosts
from the load balancing pool.
Traffic policies can be applied to all sets
or overridden at subset level.
A VirtualService defines a set of traffic routing rules
to apply when a host is addressed.
For example, what weight should we assign
to multiple services defined in this VirtualService?
How many times a HTTP request
should be retried if the request fails?
Another rule could be, what HTTP force
can be injected when forwarding requests
to the destination service?
Actual rules are defined for different protocols.
At this time, HTTP, TCP, and TLS are supported protocols.
The traffic is matched by the protocol,
then it's sent to a named destination service,
or subset or version of it,
that must have been defined by our destination rule.
Gateway describes a load balancer
operating at the edge of the mesh,
receiving incoming or outgoing HTTP/TCP connections.
A gateway allows Istio features,
such as monitoring and routing rules,
to be applied to traffic entering the cluster.
Its specification describes a set of ports
that should be exposed, the type of protocol to use,
configuration for the load balancer, etc.
A VirtualService can then be bound to a gateway
to control the forwarding of traffic
arriving at a particular host or gateway port.
Let's look at some code now.
Now that we understand what these resources are,
let's look at how these resources look like,
particularly for our application.
Let's go to manifest, standalone directory.
I'm going to open up greeting-istio.yml.
All the resources that we need for our application
are defined in this particular one file.
First is, of course, the gateway resource.
It's using the default Istio ingress gateway
and accepts all hosts.
The DestinationRule is a second resource.
It has two subsets named greeting-hello and greeting-howdy,
and the way they're identified are really
by using greeting: hello and greeting: howdy labels.
And, last, we have our VirtualService,
which accepts greeting as a gateway.
It requires greeting.com to be the host,
so, essentially, when somebody's making a request,
either it should be coming from greeting.com
or we should have a host header in the request,
and we'll see this when we actually make the request.
And, here, finally, we have HTTP-based routing,
which is pointing to two destinations.
One of them is a greeting-hello subset;
the other one is a greeting-howdy subset,
and the traffic between them is split 50/50.
So, let's go ahead and create these resources.
(keyboard clicking)
In one command, because all the resources
are together in the same manifest,
we are able to create all the resources.
So, now, let's look at kubectl, get virtualservice,
destinationrule, and gateway.
All our Istio resources have now been created.
Now, remember, our service did not have
a type of load balancer, and so the service
has to be only accessed using the ingress gateway,
because that's exactly where Istio traffic's spreading
and all the Istio rules can be applied.
So, for that, we need the host and the port
where Istio ingress gateway is running.
For that, I'm going to go to the browser,
copy a command to set up my host and port.
Here's the command.
Copy it and paste it here.
It's looking for service istio-ingressgateway
in the istio-system namespace
and getting the load balancer
ingress host name and HTTP2 port.
Now, we just need to access the service
and see how our responses look like.
Let's copy this command.
Let's see what this command is doing.
Well, first of all, we are doing this in a for loop,
so we are invoking it 10 times.
Then we are curling. What are we curling?
We are curling HTTP, ingress host
and port that we just set up.
Hello is, of course, our context of the Java application.
And, we also sending the HTTP host header,
which is required for the ingress gateway
to do the traffic splitting.
K? Let's go ahead and invoke it.
And, rightly, you see three hellos, four howdys,
one hello, two howdys.
Now, you may say, hey, this is four hellos
and six howdys, and our VirtualService said
that the split has to be 50/50.
Now, again, that 50/50 is an approximation.
So, if you do over a large set,
then this would turn out to be 50/50.